It's often said women have to work twice as hard as men to get half the credit.
But what happens when you take that logic and apply it,
not in the world of work,
but to the criminal underworld two world where results are measured,
not in spreadsheets, but in kilos of Coke shifted and rivals murdered.
While you might get someone like Zelda, Blanco born in poverty and Columbia,
Blanco rose from a life of petty crime to become the head of a vast narcotics
empire at a height.
She controlled a distribution network that stretched from the cocoa fields of
Bolivia via the slums of me to all corners of the USA at
a time when Palo Escobar was just some punk as nobody Blanco was the
godmother of cocaine.
Yet in this weld, it wasn't enough for a woman to be merely powerful.
She also had to master unbelievable violence implicated in some
250 murders, Blanco almost single handedly helped turn early eighties,
Miami into a war zone,
both a doting mother and a killer without an ounce of mercy in her soul.
This is the life of Griselda Blanco cocaine's most notorious queen pen.
Although most of our adult life would be minutely documented in court
transcripts, wire taps and witness statements. Little is known of gr Blanco's.
Early year is born on February the 15th, 1943.
She supposedly held from Columbia's north coast, maybe from Santa Marty,
maybe from kata.
Hania all we know for certain is that a family moved to me E just as Columbia
exploded in 90, 48,
the assassination of a liberal leader in boar spiraled into an undeclared civil
war between the state's two political parties is the era of the Columbia neck
tie.
When members of rival parties would slash their enemies throats and pull their
tongues out of the gash.
An era when entire villages would be hacked to pieces for backing the wrong
politician, it was in short, a time of extreme brutality.
A time when children would often be found mutilated abandoned in playgrounds,
perhaps it's no that those who grew up in this era were the same ones who'd
later become Columbia's violent cartel leaders,
even without Lancia though Zelda would've still had a tough childhood.
The street her family lived on in me was a slum. So rampant with criminality,
the authorities effectively declared it a NoGo zone. As a kid,
Blanko mixed with prostitutes, drug addicts in all manner of deviance.
Many years later,
she would claim she was repeatedly sexually assaulted as a child.
But we can't say for certain, if that's true, no matter how else has she got,
no matter how many people she had murdered Griselda always had a lifelong knack
for making herself seem like the victim. Speaking of murder.
There's a long standing rumor that Blanco committed her first murder before she
was even a teenager, age 11.
She supposedly kidnapped a boy from one of me's wealthier neighborhoods,
writing the family, a ransom note,
unable to believe someone so young could do something so cruel.
The family refused to pay. So Chris Elda took a gun and shot her hostage,
right between the eyes as with so much in the life of the cocaine godmother
though, it's hard to tell where the truth ends and the mythology begins.
For example,
there are other childhood rumors that she used to play with a young Paso from a
tough corner of Meine years later,
that boy would grow up to be N them Pao Escobar.
But whether Blanco really was a preteen killer,
who pals around with the future star of, or not,
her SL upbringing did instill some valuable lessons.
The most valuable of all was that for a girl to survive in this macho world,
she needed to be twice as tough as the toughest boy, as we'll soon.
See, it's a message Blanco took to her heart.
Zelda story finally starts to get a bit more solid around the mid 1950s,
having flare her drunk, abusive mother. She,
he eventually met Carlos trio when she was just 13,
much older than Blanco trio was a document forger and people trafficker.
He smuggled hundreds of Colombians to the United States every year ordered by
this man.
Blanco became his girlfriend patiently learning how to create fake passports and
identities by 1962,
that had three kids together and established a small criminal network in New
York city. They frequently visited now age 19.
Grael had grown into a friendly flirtatious woman who would only five feet tall
looked almost impossibly sweet and unthreatening, but as we know,
looks can be deceiving by the end of the 1960s.
Karl lost tri suddenly died officially. He was carried off by liver failure,
but not officially. Well, let's just say the,
the reason Blanco would soon pick up her nickname.
One who referred to her relationship with her husband didn't know uncertain
terms. The black widow
Be was trio Coles before Blanco had found a replacement husband like trio
Alberto Bravo was a gang, but while a trio had been a small time, crook,
Bravo had his own network with real estate and me and America.
And it wasn't people. Bravo was interested in smuggling. Rather.
It was cocaine in 1970.
Cocaine was still just finding its feet on America's party scene,
but the prophets were already good in the savvy could see that this was growing
market like a pair of blood venture capitalist it's Blanco and brother would
find themselves perfectly placed to ride the coming boom,
all the way to infa me. The Dawn of the decade found the duo living in Queens,
New York city using trio's old people,
smuggling network Blanco was able to distribute cocaine around the city with
growing ease. At the same time, she was devising ingenious,
new ways of getting blow into America.
One of the most infamous methods involved specially modified bras.
Remember this was before drug smuggling got sophisticated.
Mules would turn up for flights with product strapped to them.
Hopefully nobody noticed the weird bulge under their clothes.
Blanco's genius was to put these bulges out in the open padding bras with half a
kilo of Coke in each cup bras,
she then curvy sexy Colombian women to wear all of whom had been trained to
smell flirtatious at any male customs officials supposedly eyeing their chest.
It was a perversely simple plan.
One that didn't require secret submarines or anything more complex than
manipulating bored and horny males.
Yet it works just as well as anything Barry seal ever cooked up.
So many girls got these bras through customs.
That NYC was soon flooded with white powder in just a couple of years.
Blanco and Bravo had so cornered the markets that even the mafia couldn't
compete at a time when PLO Escobar was still just a low level,
Carlan was turning over 10 million a week in drug profits.
She was also working on building a brand.
Those lessons learned back in the slums about making sure she was tougher than
any man. Well, they were serving her well in New York,
da agents investigating the Southern avalanche of cocaine rolling through
America's biggest city,
encountered a wall of terrified silence from on the questions,
the message on the streets.
The one whispered in dive bars and cocaine fueled nightclubs alike was simple.
If you went toe to toe with Grael Delanco you better be prepared for her to chop
your feet off,
but even the strongest wool of silence will have at least a couple of loose
bricks. In the mid seventies,
the da found two former drug meals willing to testify against Lanco operation
banshee was set up to gather evidence and soon 37 indictments were being
prepared, but before the feds could act Grazel Delanco banished.
Thanks to all that document forging done with Carlos trio.
Blanco could slip into a new identity as easily as you or I could slip into a
high quality tailored blazer when they got word of the looming indictment,
Blanco and bar simply discarded their New York lives climbed onto planes with
new passports and disappeared back to Columbia.
Unfortunately for the cocaine godmother though, the me of 1975,
wasn't the same as the one she'd left out in the slums and new gangster were
starting to make a name for himself. One. So ruthless,
he Maderis Delanco looked like huckleberry hounds.
His name of course was PLOS Kabar. He was about to make Blanco's life living.
Hell.
If Christel Delanco had hoped that returning home would make her life easier.
She couldn't have been more wrong.
1975 would wind up being an almost embarrassingly bad year for the queen pin.
The trouble started almost soon as she to reclaim the turf Escobar stolen,
being Blanco. She was more than happy to kill her rivals operative,
sticking to the mantra that she needed to be twice as tough as the toughest man,
as even said that she invented murder by Sakari. In this time,
the practice of having a gunman pull up on a motorbike,
shoot someone dead and then go zipping away.
But the trouble was no matter how tough Blanco got.
She always seemed to be playing catch up with Escobar.
Dom PLO was hiring whole teams of Hitman to take out Blanco's people.
At the same time, he was buying up and taking over a drug labs.
And as Blanco began to feel the squeeze and a professional life,
her personal life,
or stick a nasty turn rather than staying me in with his wife,
Alberto barber was spending more and more time in Bo guitar rumors were flying
that he was having an affair that he was planning to ditch Blanco and go solo
things.
Finally came to her head when Blanco discovered her organization was missing
millions of dollars in the parking lot, outside a popular club,
she confronted her husband demanding an explanation. Instead,
Barbara pulled out a newsy, the crackle of gunfire Pierce,
the rainy boo guitar night echoing around the parking lot.
When the noise last died away,
Blanco was still standing clutching a bullet wounds, but still very much alive.
The same could be said of about Beto bra,
the killing of Barbara cemented result's reputation as the black widow.
She returned me in that very night showing not even the faint flicker of remorse
within a year should remarried this time to an associate of the notorious drug
smuggling, AOA brothers trafficker named Dario SEP Vader.
When they finally had a son in 1978, she name him Michael Blanco.
After the main character in the godfather movies in the way this Hollywood
influence was fitting by the end of the 1970s, Blanco would no choice,
but to return to the United States now head of the Medi cartel,
Pablo Escobar effectively taken over a home city.
Everyone who was anyone in the drug business was working for him.
Even Leah OA brothers for the first time,
Blanco had met an opponents tougher and more remorseless than she was.
She could either go on fighting and lose or she could flee Blanco
wisely, chose the latter option. At the end of the decade,
the black widow slipped on her latest disguise,
got on a plane and returned to the us, but she didn't go back to New York.
Oh no. Instead the cocaine godmother had a new destination in mind,
a sun drenched stretch of sea and glittering condos.
There was about to become central to the global drug straight.
She might be a small unthreatening looking woman,
just another passenger on the plane.
But by the time Grazel Delanco was done Miami, would've no idea what had hit it.
When Grazel Delanco touched down in south Florida,
it was at the crest of a vast white wave.
That was about to cascade over America. Here are some quick fix. By 1980,
Columbia was producing a full three quarters of all the cocaine on the planet of
that. Some 70% was traffic through south Florida,
more than 20 billion of product moving into Miami each year.
It was thanks to these astronomical sums that Blanco ends the other NAS,
which soon transform the city almost as soon as she reached the us,
the black widow set about rebuilding her trophy ocean network since Cuban gangs
already controlled Miami streets them in carving out a new niche for herself.
One forged from mayhem murder. Those 250 hits Chris Elrod.
They mostly took place here in the magic city and she wasn't alone in a violent
ways. From 1980 to 1981,
the cartel was gave Miami the highest murder rate of any city in the,
as higher even the me at one point,
there were so many corpses that the city coroner had to store them in a
refrigerated truck that had rented from burger king,
but it wasn't just via street warfare.
That Blanco helped transform Miami with a three sons by trio Dixon,
Uber and AZ Valdo, each handling distribution in a different city.
The cocaine godmother was able to sell over 1,500 kilograms of Charlie sheen
every month. That meant serious money,
money that Blanco needed to launder on a grand scale drug money poured in
from the godmother's pockets into Miami real estate.
Like the other cocaine Cowboys.
She invested so much in legit businesses that it caused an economic boom.
She may have lost her Meine racket,
but the early eighties saw Grazel living in a Florida mentioned so luxurious.
Even Tony Montana would go green with envy.
It was a man watched over by a bust of her own heads that visitors kissed for
good luck. They probably needed it. The richer she got,
the more eager the black widow was to prove that she was still one dangerous
mother in case of her husband Dario Sveta.
This was literal in 1983. Seve got fed up with Blanco,
keeping their son Michael out of school and took the boy back to Mein.
One day he was driving around the city with the boy.
When some cops flagged him down, the moment Seve stops the cops open fire,
decorating the inside of the car with this blood.
They then calmly collected the whaling Michael and flew him back to Miami to be
with his mother yet even having Seve guns down in front of their son.
Wasn't the coldest thing result.
Did she infamously ordered her to the Daylin mall that saw bullets sent flying
into crowds,
killing two and weening two others in another instant industry at the entire
Lorenzo family targeted in a leafy suburb.
Gunman tied up tortured and shot to death.
Both parents while the children watched, but the grimmest of all,
maybe what happened to Johnny Castro a two year old boy,
three years old in some tellings.
Johnny had the bad luck to be in the car with his father.
When one of blancos Hitman pulled up alongside on a motorbike,
the bullets missed the father, but two hit the boy in the skull, killing him.
When she found out about the dead toddler, Blanco was delighted,
noting it made her and Johnny's father. Even as Miami entered the mid 1980s, uh,
Coke filled neon drench, city of vice the cocaine godmother was riding high.
She was now the first female Cardile boss to make over a billion dollars.
She'd cornered the Coke market and was feared by everybody.
But eye and law of gravity is what goes up, must come down.
And when elders fall finally came,
it was going to be even more spectacular than a rise.
So here's the thing about ordering the murders of hundreds of drug traffickers.
Usually those dead traffickers leave behind friends and family.
And usually those friends and family are the sort of people with the guns and
socio theater murder you in return.
That's the situation Graza Delanco found herself in, in 1984,
she was living in a city crawling with super violent people,
just dying to do her some super violence,
which is why after belly half a decade in the sunshine state,
Blanco was abruptly forced to even go into hiding in California.
Yet it wasn't the other cartels that would turn out to be the godmother's
biggest threat. At least not yet. Even as she kept her retention,
laser focused on her fellow drug runners,
far more powerful enemy was starting to stir for the DEA tracking down.
Blanco had become an obsession ever since she skipped town back in 1975 and
through the early 1980s,
as it became clear that Zelda was back in the us agents had pumped
informants laid down wire taps and rated cocaine distribution centers. Finally,
as Blanco resurfaced in California, they'd found someone with an into her,
a former mechanic who'd serviced her three elder sons motorbikes back in Medi
and was now in the us prison for smuggling Coke. Jerry Gomez in 1984,
Gomez met Blanco in an LA hotel under the pretense of helping her LA money.
Although the tight li Zelda didn't say much,
she give away just enough about her trade for the da to start preparing an
arrest warrant. Using a utility bill found during a recent grade,
they attracted to an anonymous California apartment on February the 17th, 1995.
The godmother's log finally ran out that evening. DEA agents burst into fine.
Grazel sat in bed, reading the Bible, a gun on the dresser,
but rather than start shooting, Blanko just stared in disbelief at the,
as he walked up, kiss her on the cheek and declared Chris Elda.
I'm so glad to see you. After a 10 year hunt, it's doubtful.
He was joking in the aftermath of her arrest.
Blanco's three eldest sons were rounded up.
Their distribution network was smashed their cocaine and empire dismantled on
during the 21st, 1985,
the DEA was able to play one of Columbia's first great drug Lords in the dock as
a highly visual warning to all those who'd follow in a path. Two weeks later,
the jury found,
resulted guilty of one count of conspiracy to manufacture important to the
United States and distribute cocaine. The judge sentenced her to 15 years.
It was the end of blancos time as the cocaine queen pin sure should fight on
using legal methods. At first, then once her final appeal was dismissed in 1988,
she switched to illegal ones is around this point that she allegedly dreamed up
a plot to have John F. Kennedy Jr.
Kidnapped and held to ransom into all the government freed her.
But none of it would work. Griselda would never be busted outta prison,
never kidnapped any sons of political families.
But that doesn't mean her story is over. In fact,
the craziest part maybe had to come.
Although Blanco was locked up, the anger that had caused her to flea Miami,
hadn't gone away all over the us and Columbia dozens.
If not hundreds of people were still waiting for their chance to get revenge.
And if they couldn't get to Zelda a why,
they just have to get to those closest to her.
The first to go was O Val Treeo upon his 1992 release from prison.
The godmother's son returned to me only to be shot with a submachine gun at his
own welcome home party, forbidden from flying back for the funeral.
Blanco instead wrote a note, which he demanded the priest,
read out threatening to kill those who'd murdered a boy. It was a threat.
It should follow up on.
When one of her surviving sons Dixon tracked the shooter down.
He tortured him to death and which pleased the distant Zelda yet.
It wouldn't be long before Dixon intern was murdered.
Uber trio followed soon after finally in 1994,
the grim Reba made his first attempt on Banco herself extradited to Miami day to
stand trial for the murders of the Lorenzo family.
And two year or Johnny Castro, Blanco was facing the death penalty.
Prosecutors have managed to turn a former Hitman JGE AALA rents.
His testimony seems certain to send her down,
but then it was discovered that Ayala had been having regular phone sex with two
secretaries from the prosecutor's office.
And the case collapsed desperate to salvage something.
Anything from the humiliating debacle,
prosecutors struck a plea deal with Zelda in return for entering a guilty plea
for the secondary murder she'd received just 20 years, including time served,
which meant that shed walk free in 2004 Blanco took the deal.
And so was that four years into the 21st century.
The woman who'd once the godmother of cocaine left prison behind got on a plane
and flew back to Columbia by now,
her old underworld had changed almost beyond recognition.
Her one time rival PLO Escobar was long dead gunned down on a me rooftop over a
decade before the brothers were either in prison or outta the drug game.
In fact, so many of her enemies were now gone,
that there was no one waiting to greet Zelda with gun.
She stepped off the plane Columbia's years of NACO terror were over.
Although a civil war still raged the country was safer than it had been in
decades in shorts.
It was the perfect environment Forlano to slip into anonymity.
She took an apartment in a complex for the moderately wealthy up in the Meine
Hills. She put on a copious amount of weight, supposedly found religion. The,
and then she settled into a quiet retirement content to no longer be the
godmother of cocaine. Just a safe, secure woman.
Who'd been forgotten by friend and fo alike. Well, so she thought on Monday,
September 30,012,
a motorbike pulled up outside the Caro butcher shop on meins 29th street,
a middle aged man,
calmly got off and walked into the shop where the now 69 year old Zelda was
buying $150 worth of meat, pulling a gun.
The man shot her twice through the head.
Then he got back onto his bike and vanished off into the morning traffic.
It seems there was one enemy somewhere who'd never forgotten the bullet that he
owed Zelda Blanco as the godmother of cocaine died in that midn butchers shop
its tempting to wonder if she looked back over her life.
If she wondered how history would remember her,
certainly her story remains fascinating both for its insight into the drug war
and for its rare depiction of a female cartel leader who made it to the very top
of a Metro world. But really though,
when all this said and done the life of Griselda,
Blanco was nothing special at all.
Tale told full of sound and a fury signifying nothing.
She may have briefly held the world at her feet, but in the end,
the black widow would leave nothing behind to show for it,
nothing but a trail of dead people fittingly it is now her turn to join them.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom,
who don't forget to subscribe and as always thank you for watching.